everyone los la Montgomery again part
five today of our little Hong Kong
history overview we got as far as the
1860s last time I ended with the
governorship of sir Hercules Robinson I
didn't intend to do it this way but I'm
finding it convenient to use Hong Kong's
governor's as the milestones to
introduce the history of this period the
man following Robinson was the 6th
governor of Hong Kong's Sir Richard
graves McDonald known in these times for
McDonald rode up in the mid levels of
Hong Kong he served from March 1866 to
April 1872 under McDonnell the peak is
going to become the peak with a capital
T in a capital P this will become the
premier address location in Hong Kong
and at the time this hallowed ground was
only open to those of the Caucasian
persuasion if you know what I mean
McDonald became governor at a rocky time
it was a bit of a financial crisis that
had just started thanks to a bank called
over and gurney and company which back
in the day was one of those too big to
fail types which failed it failed in mid
1866 it almost took the great Hong
Jardine and Matheson down with them but
they escaped by the skin of their teeth
jardines rival the firm Denton company
they weren't so lucky they got wiped out
and closed their doors at Hong Kong in
1867 they were the bitter rivals of
jardines Denton company along with
jardines and the American firm Russell
and company were the big three whose
history went all the way back to the bad
old days the Canton system anyways the
over end gurney bank failure hit Hong
Kong hard it caused a run on the banks
and many businesses closed thanks to the
crisis though many Chinese firms fill
the vacuum left by these failed Western
Hong's Hong's by the way is the
Cantonese word for company in Mandarin
this pronounced hung by 1880 will see
the top 18 largest tax payers in Hong
Kong were jardines and 17 other Chinese
firms
HSBC the hong kong and shanghai banking
corporation good old Hong Kong Bank they
survived this banking crisis and this
little upstart Bank profited and
benefited immensely in the aftermath of
the over end gurney failure during
McDonald's run is governor Hong Kong
Bank became the banker to the Hong Kong
government McDonald was also known for
his tough crackdown on crime and for
empowering the police to be merciless
and tough flogging and hanging were the
main tools of the trade because the
prisons were all overcrowded and there
was no room to take more criminals the
authorities would tattoo the convicted
man's face and then they'd stick him on
a boat and send him away to someplace
far away his tattoo branded him and if
he ever tried to sneak back in a Hong
Kong it would be easily given away and
if caught faced flogging or death it was
said that in Shanghai and kenton as well
the Chinese authorities there would send
all their riffraff and ex-cons on a boat
to Hong Kong just to get rid of them and
of course to hassle the British and give
them a headache this is an old
geopolitical trick used from time to
time throughout recorded history I
vaguely remember the Cuban refugees who
poured in during Jimmy Carter's term
1980 there was a lot of talk about
Castro emptying out his prisons and
letting a lot of these guys go to the US
so that they could become the new
problem of the American authorities
another thing that McDonald did that
didn't go down well at the time was his
ham-fisted attempt to regulate gambling
through a kind of licensing system it
was bitterly resented and the pushback
from the Chinese was very forceful
colonial police were all on the take
from these gambling dens and clubs and
they they too didn't support these
attempts at regulation either McDonald
had to drop this idea in the end after
too much sustained resistance in the end
the force is lined up against McDonald
in his attempts to control gambling in
Hong Kong all argued and won when they
claimed that the regular
stations had increased corruption
bankruptcy robbery suicide and the
selling of children into slavery those
were the negatives of his administration
on the other hand governor richard
graves mcdonald was a reforming governor
he had over 20 years serving as governor
in one place or another and the empire
and he came to Hong Kong to perform his
swan song before he retired with
distinction from the Foreign Service so
he knew how to manage an administration
and within a very short period of
arriving he began cleaning things up he
took measures to fight back against
piracy you know when he became governor
the problem was rampant when he left it
was on the decline drastic times needed
drastic measures and this is what
MacDonald did the Suez Canal had just
opened up when he took office this was a
big deal in its day and having the Suez
Canal saved one hassle of having to sail
all the way around the south of Africa
the bank failures that happened around
the time McDonald began his governorship
caused a recession to hit Hong Kong
among other places MacDonald had to ride
this one out payments to the military
were halted temporarily all public works
ceased and most absolutely essential and
the government took a loan from the hong
kong and shanghai banking corporation of
eighty thousand dollars to help them
ride out this storm this the bank did at
eight percent interest McDonnell took
the unpopular step to raise taxes of the
colony he did this through a number of
ways a flat rate stamp tax being one of
them a whole number of taxes were levied
and the Chinese making up ninety-eight
percent of the population were the ones
who paid the taxes and provided most of
the government revenue by the time
MacDonald left in April of 1872 the
colony of Hong Kong was looking better
than it had ever done so before like
President Obama he arrived on the scene
just as a financial crisis was unfolding
he weathered this economic downturn and
even during these depressed times pushed
through all
lines of reforms and ordinances that you
know weren't at all noteworthy in their
individual accomplishments but
collectively MacDonald put Hong Kong on
firm and stable footing his successor
sir arthur kennedy yeah you know what
I'm gonna say of course of Kennedy Road
and Kennedy town he arrived with Hong
Kong looking a whole lot nicer than when
McDonald found it if not for the
gambling regulation debacle McDonald's
rain would have been more than good so
good were things in the colony that
governor arthur kennedy didn't have to
do too much his period in hong kong 1872
to 1877 witnessed the worst typhoon ever
to hit Hong Kong since the colonies
founding this one a direct hit struck
Hong Kong the late evening of September
22nd 1874 this one howld throughout the
whole night and into the morning in the
six hours that this one savage Hong Kong
2,000 people are more lost their lives a
number 8 signal can be rather
destructive my nine years in Hong Kong I
never witnessed a number ten but I heard
they're pretty terrible this one in 1874
and later in 1906 1937 and 1962 would
witness the full destructive force of a
number ten signal typhoon and would
wreak havoc on Hong Kong and kill many
residents sir arthur kennedy didn't do
anything spectacular during his period
in Government House despite carrying on
McDonald's rather harsh anti-crime
measures mostly against the Chinese he
made attempts to reach out to the
Chinese community he was the first
governor to host events at Government
House where local Chinese were invited
until now the segregation had been quite
strict the Hong Kong dollar was
officially launched during the time of
Sir Arthur Kennedy he wasn't the
greatest governor but he was certainly
popular when he left the built a statue
in his honor
after hearing about his death shortly
after leaving Hong Kong in March 1877
the statute disappeared during the
Japanese occupation of the island was
never recovered by arthur kennedy's time
Hong Kong as a British colony had been
in existence for three decades in the
last episode we saw that this whole Hong
Kong experiment was very rough going in
the beginning took a while for everyone
to see the light Hong Kong wasn't by any
means amateur place yet forces were in
motion socially and politically that
were slowly transforming the place into
the international shipping trading and
financial center that it ultimately
became by the time of Kennedy pressures
began to mount so that the powers in
Hong Kong and in London were forced to
contemplate that for every hundred
people in the colony 98 were Chinese
there was simply no way in the world the
local Chinese populace could be
administered to or policed without
drawing them into the system the idea of
some benevolent dictatorship in Hong
Kong just simply wasn't going to work
they needed to bring the local Chinese
on board to make this whole Hong Kong
thing work the Taiping rebellion had led
to a huge influx of Chinese into Hong
Kong these new arrivals were of a
different sort than those who had come
before them these were the so-called
respectable Chinese that is to say they
were people of substance with money
education social status from wherever
they came from in China they had too
much to lose and so in order not to be
included amongst the 20 or so million
people killed in the typing conflict
they fled to Hong Kong many with their
wealth their families and their they
settled and prospered many were is rich
educated and cultured as the European
residents of Hong Kong they were
different from the Chinese so the
British had grown used to who were you
know involved in commerce
china trade and who had come to Hong
Kong alone to try their luck now whole
families of Chinese were showing up they
joined up with existing mighty and
influential Chinese most of them part of
that Brotherhood of compra doors who
worked with the big Western trading
companies this was where that unshakable
Hong Kong Chinese business and merchant
class began these Chinese made immediate
contributions to Hong Kong society into
commerce as well they were joined by
another group of Chinese who begin to
emerge during this time these were the
second generation of Chinese many
trained by the Western missionaries they
were different from the first generation
this second generation were more
westernized fluent in English mixed much
easier with the British and other
Europeans what I call the Lord
Palmerston generation that that that
first generation the time of this
generation began to fade from the scene
with the death of that that Giants in
British history in 1865 the bottom line
was that the British around MacDonald
and Kennedy's time had to start paying
more attention to the specific and
unique needs of the Chinese populace
they had to respect and attend to
Chinese sensibilities no matter how
different strange or even revolting they
might be to some Western people one of
the outcomes this kind of thinking was
the dong hua hospital founded in 1870
nominee Hong Kong and Hong Kong expat
residents will have heard of them
sometimes on Saturdays this is the
charity featured in the morning and
you'll see hundreds and hundreds of
young Hong Kong teens standing around
the MTR and on the streets holding some
bag in which you know money is deposited
and you know whoever gives us money will
get this little sticker to put on their
shirt or you know whatever indicating
you gave already and that's how I first
heard of donghua hospital the dumb wha
hospital was created by these Chinese I
mentioned the second generation since
the founding of the colony rich
successful educated and cultured
completely different from those who had
first come to Hong Kong in establishing
the dong hua Hospital this was one of
the earliest examples of Chinese taking
control of matters that exclusively
concerned their community the British
stepped aside and let it all happen
there was no way they were going to be
able to lord it over ninety eight
percent of the population and serve
their needs by themselves things were
just growing way too fast it was a
different playing field now serious
money was now sloshing through the
colony most of it legal no matter how
much the British felt Chinese medicine
was hokey or that Chinese believed of
some things that the British regarded as
pure superstition they had to push those
prejudices aside and respect Chinese
traditions so in the 1870s its 30 years
since the Treaty of Nanjing and Hong
Kong is no longer looked upon as this
abysmal failure or bad idea the
population is a little over 120,000 the
first generation built the foundation
and did as much as they could to push
things in the right direction now it's
the second generation who have arrived
these guys are a whole lot smarter and
sophisticated than you know MA and pas
who came to Hong Kong and the 1840s or
50s you know probably from some tune
some village up in Guangdong or food gen
they speak English perfectly and many
have grown up amongst the British since
birth they know how to stand up to them
and how to use the system to get their
way so they broke ground in 1870 and
don't wash bottle served as a nice
example of the British stepping out of
the way acknowledging that the Chinese
as far as you know sickness death and
wellness were concerned you know hit
their own way of doing things so this
was the first real Hospital setup in
Hong Kong where local residents could go
get treated and the cherry on top as far
as soon the British were concerned was
that the board of directors or trustees
of this institution were all the most
powerful respected and influential
Chinese businessman in the colony
so in a way that Dom wah hospital became
the unofficial voice of the Chinese
community in Hong Kong anyway it's still
around today bigger and better than ever
before and serving the people of Hong
Kong and ways small and big for over a
hundred and forty years well sir arthur
kennedy was succeeded by Sir John Pope
Hennessey Hennessey road as you can tell
a lot of the major streets of Hong Kong
we're all named after these early
governors he was a Catholic which
immediately put him behind the eight
ball as far as the Protestant Hong Kong
establishment was concerned he was a
standoffish guy didn't get along with
anyone wasn't very well-liked he had the
reputation of always siding with the
Chinese against the Hong Kong British
establishment he served make teen 77
1883 in the US this would be the time of
Hayes Garfield and Arthur in the US the
Chinese Exclusion acts which we looked
at in CHP episode 44 would start in 1882
as i said Hennessey famously always
sided with the Chinese for this he was
despised and hated by many from the Hong
Kong establishment he was the governor
who said from now on it was ok for any
Chinese to buy property and build
buildings in Central you see up till
then the central district was off-limits
to Chinese as far as you know who could
own property there back then Chinese
couldn't even operate a respectable
business in central they had to go east
or west of central those were the
Chinese areas of Hong Kong hennessy had
said quote there being no legal
impediment in the way and it being a
matter of principle importance that no
obstruction should be put in the way of
the natural course of trade that permits
be freely granted for native structures
along any part of queens road and
business streets immediately joining
upper wyndham street hollywood road and
aberdeen street so as soon as all this
money poured into central it launched a
great real estate boom that i would say
continues to this very day but there
were plenty of people who were of the
mind that there goes the neighborhood
the level of sanitation and hygiene that
the Westerners were used to and what
passed for okay in the Chinese areas
well it was quite a gap so the fair was
the Chinese start mixing with us you
know it's going to have a negative
impact on the whole matter of public
health and sanitation hennessy appointed
one Osbert chadwick out to compile a
report on the sanitary conditions in
hong kong when the report came out in
1882 had a huge impact on how public
sanitation should be carried out it
resulted in the creation of a department
to handle all this stuff and this
department later on became what we know
in Hong Kong is the urban council or
today the urban services department well
this isn't the sexiest thing in the
world to talk about sewage and
sanitation but it needed to be done
after so many people started living on
top of one another literally anyways
Chadwicks rather shocking reports of
sanitary conditions in hong kong got the
ball rolling in what ultimately followed
gave the colony and all the inhabitants
something that was needed a cholera
epidemic in 1883 didn't hurt as far as
you know incentives to prioritize this
whole thing even with all the wonderful
things that came out of the chadwick
report the matter of overcrowding in the
Chinese quarters remained the
insurmountable obstacle it was said in
some quarters locals lived a thousand to
an acre chadwick had said if you want to
do this right you need at least three
hundred cubic feet of space per person
that comes to about twelve square feet
for a family of four and at least one
window now let me tell you sounds rough
doesn't it even this twelve square feet
this was considered too generous by many
of the Chinese slum Lords of the day let
me just mention another one of the many
pillars of early Hong Kong society
during Hennessy's time the bowl young
cook or bout
anju was set up in English this was
called the society for the protection of
women and children the original cause
for which this esteemed body was created
was to combat the sale of the so-called
mujhay in hong kong these mujha or maids
which means little sister who were they
these were the Chinese version of the
poor peasant girl who was sold by her
parents into a kind of slavery where
they were taken into a rich household
and lived a life of servitude with that
particular family another route taken
not willingly I'm sure was one of
prostitution and performing roles in the
skin trade of China and Hong Kong in the
traditional Chinese society especially
with the poorer classes the idea of
selling one's daughter wasn't such a bad
thing sons were preferred and if there
were too many mouths defeat in the
family the females of the lot were
always the ones who drew the short straw
you know and ended up getting sold again
this wasn't looked at as necessarily bad
since it could be argued that you know
life is a movie I was preferable to one
of growing up you know the grinding
poverty of the countryside the whole muy
J's system let's just say got a little
out of hand it was a cruel system and
nothing more than a kind of slavery from
I guess any angle you look at it so
governor Hennessy saw to the creation of
the balloon go in November of 1878 this
organization began doing all its good
work in 1882 to fight against the
abduction and trafficking of women and
children today in our modern times the
group is involved in social services
adoption education recreation and also
cultural services during these early
years of British colonial rule the bold
young cook just like you know don't wash
Patel did they also served as a kind of
unofficial mediator between the British
authorities and the local populace and
all kinds of culturally sense
of matters governor Pope Hennessey also
led the way to appoint the first Chinese
members of ledge go the Legislative
Council he also saw two other programs
some of which the people of Hong Kong
would become the prime beneficiaries
this included the grant-in-aid system
which helped fund many an academic
career for so many Hong Kong students
speaking of grant a u.s. 18th president
and civil war hero at least for the
northern side Ulysses Simpson grant
visited Hong Kong in 1879 it was just a
stop during an extended asian tour and
nothing of great consequence occurred
let me mention an early Giants of Hong
Kong history cerci Ho Chi in Mandarin
his name was hood she he's known as kya
ho his quick resume like I said he was
one of this generation born into a track
in life that allowed him to mix
comfortably in both the British and
Chinese societies he grew up in a
church-going family and his father and
brother were prominent in the church chi
ho studied in the UK went to medical
school there got his MD afterwards he
went and got a law degree in 1881 and
left Britain in eighteen eighty two
returning to Hong Kong just when someone
like him was needed of a scene he came
to Hong Kong with all that awareness of
British education and tradition kayo was
the perfect vessel that contained the
right concoction of British and Chinese
sensibilities he was able to do a lot of
good in establishing hospitals and
bringing acceptance of some Western
medical practices to the local community
in 1887 the Hong Kong college of
medicine for Chinese was opened with his
support and leadership this later on
became Hong Kong University I'm going to
mention this in a little bit because of
one of their more famous students there
chi ho and his son-in-law mr. auld up
with later on in the 1920s involve
themselves in a land reclamation
project well that went bust but their
project named after themselves kaiho an
old duck was called the Chi duck Bund
and you guessed it this was the very
land where later on Kai Tak Airport
would be built chi ho from the 1880s 90s
and all the way up until his death in
1914 was one of the most respected and
admired men in Hong Kong certainly
amongst the Chinese community there he
was appointed to let go in 1890 he was
only 31 at the time for the most part
Hennessey's neglect of the government
administration created a lot of
headaches a lot was planned but little
got done hennessy left Hong Kong in 1883
and was succeeded by one of the more
forgettable governors sir george
ferguson Bowen yes lovely Bowen road in
the mid-levels used to love to walk
there back in the day the royal
observatory and the causeway bay typhoon
shelter are credited to Bowen now Bowen
served only four years as governor of
Hong Kong from March 1883 to October
1887 and he wasn't always there thus I
know French war broke out in 1884 as did
the siege of Khartoum in Sudan where
Charles Chinese Gordon met his demise
there were Wars breaking out here and
there as well Burma between Serbia and
Bulgaria it wasn't a peaceful time in
the world but Frances involvement in
China and the Far East brought a new
kind of additional importance to Hong
Kong the British feared that with France
out gallivanting around China in the
South China Sea measures had to be taken
to protect Hong Kong as a governor Bowen
was described as one of the bad ones but
blessed with a good staff the Chadwicks
report was studied and under Bowen
that's when things began to happen hong
kong by the 1880s with the safe backing
of great britain to ensure peace and
serenity in the colony was handling
about twenty one percent of china's
exports and thirty-seven percent of the
import trade and not quite half of
imports China took in from Hong Kong
consisted of that black mud also known
as opium still legal too much money to
be made no one wanted to give it up
still not the addicts their enablers and
the merchants who bought and sold the
stuff in July 1887 a chap from ledge go
a successful trader named Paul chater
suggested a land reclamation project in
central covering 57 new acres
thirty-four hundred yards long and 250
feet wide work began in 1890 was
completed in 1904 this meant that Queens
Road was no longer harbourfront property
the former promenade along the
waterfront in central and western now
became tuvo road this road was named
after sir george william de veau bowen
successor who served as hong kong's 10th
governor from 1882 1886 two main things
we remember from devos period were the
construction of the peak tram which
opened for business made 28 1888 this of
course led to a boom in building on the
pink he's also known for the
establishment of hong kong electric
holdings one of the venerable old
companies of hong kong now part of mr.
li ka-shing's business empire we
discussed Lee cashing in episode CHP 13
1880s and 90's was a period when great
and costly public works were carried out
a half a century after the signing of
the Treaty of Nanjing it was looking
like this barren rock with hardly a
house upon it was in store for great
things wealth was accumulating a fast
clip more and more Chinese were
streaming into the colony no one was
waiting to see what was going to happen
the government began playing for keeps
and they began to transform the
territory the illustrious Hong Kong
triads had by now become a daily fact of
life there were as many as 15,000
members walking the streets info
training the government's the top levels
of Industry and Commerce they were
everywhere the Bowen DeVoe governorships
were not considered remarkable in any
shape or form the 19th century will come
to a close with the governorship of Sir
William Robinson a second governor named
Robinson this denied him the honor of
having any places named after him
governor Hercules Robinson took all the
glory and he's the Robinson we mostly
remember today this latter governor
Robinson served from 1891 1898 a guy by
the name of sun yat-sen was studying
medicine in Hong Kong at this time son
had been a student in Hong Kong since
1883 when he was 17 years old he
received his degree in medicine from the
Hong Kong college of medicine for
Chinese which I mentioned previously
became Hong Kong University it was here
in Hong Kong during these formative
years that Sun yat-sen in the 1880s and
early 90s began his career as a
revolutionary we'll talk more about that
later this other governor Robinson he
had the misfortune of being in charge
when the great bubonic plague of 1894
struck this whole thing is known as the
third plague pandemic it started in
Yunnan in 1850 and spread quickly Duta
haven't created by muslim rebellions
there by march 1894 it had spread to
Canton and free Canton to Hong Kong more
than a hundred thousand people died with
at least 2,500 in Hong Kong Ground Zero
was the densely populated typing Shan
street area just above shang wan from
hong kong it got passed to india you see
mankind in the 1890s they couldn't get
around like we do today but they still
were able to move from point A to point
B quicker than ever before and you know
people on the go that's a godsend to any
pandemic now this governor Robinson was
one of those types who unlike a few of
his predecessors didn't care too much
for the Chinese and viewed them with
disdain as far as drastic measures taken
to prevent the spread of the plague in
Hong Kong a great majority of local
Chinese residents tried to get around
these efforts of the Hong Kong
government Robinson said of this
exercise and frustration quote educated
to unsanitary habits and accustomed from
infancy to herd together they were
unable to grasp the necessity of
segregation they were quite content to
die like sheep spreading disease around
them as long as they were left
undisturbed these feelings no doubt the
result of blind prejudice and
superstition naturally prompted
concealment which eventually
necessitated the organization of search
parties and house-to-house visitation
harrowing tales are told how upon a
search party entering a house in which
there were cases of sickness every
possible means of evasion and
concealment was hurriedly devised never
was Chinese ingenuity put to so sore a
test or exercised in such a pitiable
cause governor Robinson had to work with
the bagua Hospital people to control
this must be plague upon the colony this
1894 plague was quite a shot to the
system like with other cultures around
the world Chinese culture has its own
rites and rituals regarding death and
although things you're supposed to do if
and when it happens well one of the
bedrocks of the Chinese death experience
involved being buried in the land of
your ancestors and by this time most
people dying head at one time or another
comes in China so with so many local
people dropping dead one after the other
it created a logistical and social
nightmare of epic proportions in the
colony at a time when movement was
restricted over a hundred thousand local
Hong Kong people rose up and headed
north to Canton guangzhou you know I
figured if they're going to die from
this plague than it had best be amongst
their ancestors going on concurrently
with this great plague was the
sino-japanese
or 1895 will bring us the Treaty of
Shimonoseki which is going to launch
over a century of enmity between these
two great nations an enmity that still
simmers today in fact one of the last
things of considerable consequence that
happened during Robinson's time besides
the opening of the peak tram in 1888 was
the negotiation of the lease on the New
Territories it was left up to Robinson's
successor to actually go in and take it
over as the financier Paul shader you
know chader garden and shader road that
guy he his contribution to the
discussion about whether or not to you
know go after in the New Territories
went like this he felt that even though
Japan had just given them a licking in
the sino-japanese war and humiliated
them with the Treaty of Shimonoseki
shader said quote that Empire you know
meaning China is to intrinsically strong
to full of resources to patient and
persevering ever to remain for any
length of time in her present condition
so it was therefore shader had
recommended that regarding the New
Territories strike now while China was
weak and we all know you know Hong Kong
Island was seated in perpetuity in 1841
then came Kowloon south of boundary
street in 1860 but the place was getting
way too crowded for its own good you may
say that today the population runs in a
million so how overpopulated could it be
you know but back in the 1890s they
couldn't build these huge housing
estates like they can now there was no
mass transport and you know as we know
from the plague of 1894 sanitation
couldn't support this large of a
population and the plague itself made
the government think they needed more
room to spread out and now with the
specter of Japan looming on the horizon
and China's appearance inability to
stand up to them or anyone probably the
British felt strongly that they needed
some sort of buffer between them and
China
not only were they nervous about Japan
but Russia and France to those who were
also having their own little Chinese
adventures the French and the sino
French war of eighteen eighty four to
1885 and the Russians and all their
grand designs along the manchurian
border now the British side attempted to
negotiate the dividing line between the
northern extent of the New Territories
in China to a small chain of mountains
just north of the city of Shenyang they
felt the schengen river itself didn't
provide enough of a line of separation
between Hong Kong China but in the end
this is where they drew the line right
at the Shenzhen river the lease was
signed on jun 9th 1898 and this second
convention of Beijing as the document is
called least the area between boundary
street and the Shenzhen river to Britain
for a period of ninety nine years the
lease would expire on june thirtieth
1997 back in 1898 this seemed like a
long long way away just as the air 2111
2112 seemed so distant to us in our time
in the summer of 1898 Governor Sir
William Robinson left Hong Kong after a
rather action-packed turbulent period he
didn't stick around for the leasing of
the New Territories the next governor to
fill robinson's shoes was Sir Henry
Arthur Blake who Hong Kong residents
will know for Blake spare formerly of
central and now safely relocated in
Stanley this governor Blake was quite
the amateur botanist in the flower
native to hong kong.the bauhinia like
iana was named after him this Bohemia
flower is now the official flower of
Hong Kong and appears on the Hong Kong
flag and on the currency he became the
first governor to take over the new
fortified and bigger Hong Kong the New
Territories added 365 new square miles
of land which increased the total area
of the colony by 12 times the day
the takeover was set for April sixteenth
1899 now one of the other fascinating
things about the takeover of the New
Territories was that the district of
calhoun city within this small enclave
quote the chinese officers now stationed
there shall continue to exercise
jurisdiction except so far as may be
inconsistent with the military
requirements for the defense of hong
kong so basically that little Vatican
City that little san marino it remained
Chinese territory this is the area where
you had later on the fabled walled city
of Kowloon it would serve as China's
unofficial clubhouse in the territory
were many in operation our negotiation
was carried out the whole takeover of
the New Territories didn't go all
together smoothly there were a lot of
hiccups you know when all these quite
loathe started showing up in these
traditionally chinese agricultural
backwaters on the other side of the
mountains north of Kowloon Kwai LOH by
the way for those who don't know this is
what the locals always called foreigners
the men anyway a girl was a guai bully
and a woman was AG whitepaw quite meant
devil grey is how you pronounce it in
Mandarin and low meant you know fellow
or guy low or in Mandarin law in
Mandarin is not the most you know
affectionate or polite form of the word
man muy means sister as I said as in
moyes I and Paul was woman cuello y muy
guapa the names have all stuck around
all the way into modern times still hear
it all the time and even in my presence
the word is still used freely I
personally don't care doesn't bother me
but some people well they look at this
term like it's the N word so it all
depends on how you feel about it or look
at it but the word while oh that's
definitely a sliver of Hong Kong culture
so like I said it didn't go smooth but
it all eventually got worked out we're
gonna close out this episode
now just by mentioning about where China
is at the turn of the century 1900 the
Boxer Rebellion raged between the fall
of 1899 and September 1901 the guangxu
emperor's 100 days of reform the wushu
been fuh well actually 104 days but
hundred sounds better China is well into
its century of humiliation and we all
know the whole Ching dynasty is going to
come crashing down in 1911 1912 so next
episode we'll see how Hong Kong becomes
one of the basis of subversion where sun
yat-sen and all his followers plot the
overthrow of the Ching dynasty and the
establishment of a republic the colony
had been warned in no uncertain terms
from the head office in London not to
allow Hong Kong to become a base from
which anti chinga conspirators could
gather to plot the end of the dynasty
the Hong Kong government walked a fine
line following the orders from London
but at the same time not doing anything
to halt the activities of the known
leaders of the movement the worst I
guess you could say they did was in
march of 1896 when sun yat-sen was on
his way back to Hong Kong after a
fundraiser in Hawaii Governor William
Robinson declared him persona non grata
in Hong Kong for a period of five years
he ended up in London and later got
himself kidnapped and you know from
there went on to become the face of the
revolution so we'll pick up next time
with the governorship of the man whose
name graces the most famous street and
all of Kowloon good old nathan road
we'll look at sir matthew nathan and
then we'll see how far we go before the
buzzer sounds there I go again the royal
we I'm recording this in the city of
Fort Lauderdale Florida I'm traveling
all around the country on this magical
mystery tour with all my peoples from
the head office Irving Texas Bentonville
Arkansas and now I'm here and I still
have Naperville Illinois White Plains
New York jacksonville florida and san
francisco ahead of me before i touched
down at LAX and commenced work on
episode 106 stay well everyone wherever
you are in the world this is laszlo
Montgomery signing off from the marriott
in boca raton florida and hoping against
hope that you'll join me next week for
another exciting episode of the china
history podcast